README.md, before:

<div align="center">
 👋 Hi, everyone!
    <br>
    We are <b>ByteDance Seed team.</b>
</div>

<p align="center">
  You can get to know us better through the following channels👇
  <br>
  <a href="https://team.doubao.com/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Website-%231e37ff?style=for-the-badge&logo=bytedance&logoColor=white"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/93481cda-a7f3-47f3-b333-fe6b3da86b78">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/WeChat-07C160?style=for-the-badge&logo=wechat&logoColor=white"></a>
 <a href="https://www.xiaohongshu.com/user/profile/668e7e15000000000303157d?xsec_token=ABl2-aqekpytY6A8TuxjrwnZskU-6BsMRE_ufQQaSAvjc%3D&xsec_source=pc_search">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Xiaohongshu-%23FF2442?style=for-the-badge&logo=xiaohongshu&logoColor=white"></a>
  <a href="https://www.zhihu.com/org/dou-bao-da-mo-xing-tuan-dui/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/zhihu-%230084FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=zhihu&logoColor=white"></a>
</p>

![seed logo](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c42e675e-497c-4508-8bb9-093ad4d1f216)

# Triton-distributed

<!-- <p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/bytedance/flux">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Triton-distributed-Project Page-yellow"></a>
  <a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/xxxx.xxxx">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Triton-distributed-Tech Report-red"></a>
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3fcb3bf-466b-4efe-8c3f-5f85258202ae">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Triton-distributed-Wechat Communication Group-07C160"></a>
  <a href="XXX">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue"></a>
</p> -->

[Original Triton README](https://github.com/triton-lang/triton/blob/main/README.md) | [README in Chinese](README-cn.md)

Triton-distributed is a distributed compiler designed for computation-communication overlapping, which is based on OpenAI Triton.

Using Triton-distributed, programmers are able to develop efficient kernels comparable to highly-optimized libraries (including [Distributed-GEMM](https://github.com/NVIDIA/cutlass/tree/main/examples/65_distributed_gemm) and [FLUX](https://github.com/bytedance/flux/blob/main/README.md)).
Triton-distributed currently mainly targets Nvidia GPU and AMD GPU. It can also be ported to other hardware platforms.
Feel free to contact us if you want to use Triton-distributed on your own hardware.

## Getting started

### Install Triton-distributed

#### Method 1. From source

See [build from source](docs/build.md).

#### Method 2. Using pip

Prepare PyTorch container

```sh
docker run --name triton-dist --ipc=host --network=host --privileged --cap-add=SYS_ADMIN --shm-size=10g --gpus=all -itd nvcr.io/nvidia/pytorch:25.04-py3 /bin/bash
docker exec -it triton-dist /bin/bash
```

Install Dependencies

```sh
pip3 install cuda-python==12.4 setuptools==69.0.0 wheel pybind11
```

Then, pip install triton-dist.
```sh
# Remove triton installed with torch
pip uninstall triton
pip uninstall triton_dist # remove previous triton-dist
rm -rf /usr/local/lib/python3.12/dist-packages/triton
# Install Triton-distributed
pip install https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/releases/download/v0.0.1-rc/triton_dist-3.4.0-cp312-cp312-manylinux_2_27_x86_64.manylinux_2_28_x86_64.whl
```

### Latest News
- 08/24/2025 ⚡⚡⚡: Support inference acceleration for [ByteDance-Seed/Seed-OSS-36B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/ByteDance-Seed/Seed-OSS-36B-Instruct), achieving a 1.33x speedup.
- 08/13/2025 ✨✨✨: Introduced the MegaTritonKernel and provided a Qwen3 TP demo on H20/H800, See the [doc](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/docs/getting-started/megakernel/megakernel.md) for details.
- 08/06/2025 ✨✨✨: Support GEMM+AllReduce on H800 and support MoE operators on L20, see [GEMM+AR Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_gemm_ar.py) and [MOE Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_moe_reduce_rs.py) for detail.
- 07/24/2025 🤖🤖🤖: Introduced end-to-end inference acceleration demo with unified support for both NVIDIA and AMD GPUs. See the [doc](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/docs/getting-started/e2e/e2e_dense.md) for details.
- 07/11/2025 ✨✨✨: Fast AllReduce implemented with Triton-distributed, see [AllReduce Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_allreduce.py).
- 07/11/2025 ✨✨✨: Improved MoE operators for tensor parallel. See [AG+MoE Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_ag_moe.py) and [MoE+RS Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_moe_reduce_rs.py).
- 07/11/2025 ✨✨✨: Triton 3.4 support with NVSHMEM4py ([MR](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/pull/54)). `pip install` is also supported without any need to modify NVSHMEM code.
- 05/12/2025 🚀🚀🚀: Our paper `TileLink: Generating Efficient Compute-Communication Overlapping Kernels using Tile-Centric Primitives` accepted by MLSys 2025.

### How to use Triton-distributed
Triton-distributed provides a set of easy-to use primitives to support the development of distributed compute-communication overlapping kernels. The primitives are divided into low-level primitives and high-level primitives. Currently, we have released our low-level primitives, and we plan to release high-level primitives in future.

[Triton-distributed Primitives](docs/primitives.md)

Using these primitives, users can program communication kernels easily. For example, a low-latency AllToAll (with better latency than [DeepEP](https://github.com/deepseek-ai/DeepEP) for inference) is shown below.
The performance of this example on 32 H800 GPUs is 137us (128 tokens per rank, topk=8, hidden_size=7168, dtype=fp8), while DeepEP is 182 us (note: DeepEP doesn't use NVLink for inference).
```py
@triton.jit
def all_to_all_kernel(
    data_src,
    data_dst,
    splits_src,
    splits_dst,
    signal,
    splits_cumsum,
    scale_src,
    scale_dst,
    rank: int,
    call_count: int,
    WITH_SCALE: tl.constexpr,
    WORLD_SIZE: tl.constexpr,
    HIDDEN: tl.constexpr,
    MAX_M: tl.constexpr,
    EXPERTS_PER_RANK: tl.constexpr,
    NUM_TOT_EXPERTS: tl.constexpr,
    ELEMENT_SIZE: tl.constexpr = 2,
    SCALE_ELEMENT_SIZE: tl.constexpr = 4,
):
    pid = tl.program_id(0)
    threadidx = tid(axis=0)

    exp_st = pid * EXPERTS_PER_RANK
    exp_ed = exp_st + EXPERTS_PER_RANK

    m_st = tl.load(splits_cumsum + exp_st)
    m_ed = tl.load(splits_cumsum + exp_ed)
    num_rows_cur_block = m_ed - m_st

    src_off = m_st
    dst_off = rank * MAX_M

    split_src_ptr = splits_src + exp_st
    off0 = exp_st + tl.arange(0, EXPERTS_PER_RANK)
    off1 = exp_st + tl.arange(0, EXPERTS_PER_RANK) + 1
    cumsum_sts = tl.load(splits_cumsum + off0)
    cumsum_eds = tl.load(splits_cumsum + off1)
    tl.store(split_src_ptr + tl.arange(0, EXPERTS_PER_RANK), cumsum_eds - cumsum_sts)

    act_pos = call_count % 2
    data_dst_ptr = data_dst + act_pos * WORLD_SIZE * MAX_M * HIDDEN + dst_off * HIDDEN
    split_dst_ptr = splits_dst + act_pos * NUM_TOT_EXPERTS + rank * EXPERTS_PER_RANK
    signal_ptr = signal + act_pos * WORLD_SIZE + rank

    libshmem_device.putmem_nbi_block(
        data_dst_ptr,
        data_src + src_off * HIDDEN,
        num_rows_cur_block * HIDDEN * ELEMENT_SIZE,
        pid,
    )
    libshmem_device.putmem_nbi_block(
        split_dst_ptr,
        split_src_ptr,
        EXPERTS_PER_RANK * 4,  # now we use `int32` for splits
        pid,
    )
    if WITH_SCALE:
        scale_dst_ptr = scale_dst + act_pos * WORLD_SIZE * MAX_M + dst_off
        libshmem_device.putmem_signal_nbi_block(
            scale_dst_ptr,
            scale_src + src_off,
            num_rows_cur_block * SCALE_ELEMENT_SIZE,
            signal_ptr,
            call_count,
            libshmem_device.NVSHMEM_SIGNAL_SET,
            pid,
        )

    libshmem_device.fence()
    if threadidx == 0:
        if not WITH_SCALE:
            libshmem_device.signal_op(
                signal_ptr,
                call_count,
                libshmem_device.NVSHMEM_SIGNAL_SET,
                pid,
            )
        libshmem_device.signal_wait_until(
            signal + act_pos * WORLD_SIZE + pid,
            libshmem_device.NVSHMEM_CMP_EQ,
            call_count,
        )
```

Also, users can combine the communication part with computation part to design overlapping kernels. We have provided example implementations in `python/triton_dist/kernels`.

## Performance
Triton-distributed can achieve comparable or better performance than hand-tuned libraries.


### AllGather GEMM on single node of H800x8
![Ag-GEMM-inter-node](asset/ag-gemm-intra-node.png)

### GEMM ReduceScatter on single node of H800x8
![Ag-GEMM-inter-node](asset/gemm-rs-intranode-perf.png)

### AllGather GEMM on 2 nodes of H800x8
![Ag-GEMM-inter-node](asset/ag-gemm-internode-perf.png)

### GEMM ReduceScatter on 2 nodes of H800x8
![GEMM-Rs-inter-node](asset/gemm-rs-internode-perf.png)

### Scaling of Distributed Flash-Decode from 1 GPU to 32 GPUs
The batch size is 1 (one query) for decoding.
![flash-decode-inter-node](asset/flash-decode-scaling.png)

### Performance on Other Platforms
[AMD GPUs](docs/amd-perf.md)


## Roadmaps

### Functionalities
- [x] Release low-level primitives
- [ ] Release high-level primitives
- [x] Tutorials
- [x] Pre-built binary

### Kernels
- [x] Release single-node GEMM TP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release single-node MoE TP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release single-node distributed Flash-Decoding kernels
- [ ] Release single-node MoE EP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release cross-node GEMM TP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release cross-node MoE TP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release cross-node distributed Flash-Decoding kernels
- [x] Release cross-node EP all-to-all kernels (similar to [DeepEP](https://github.com/deepseek-ai/DeepEP))
- [x] Provide tutorials for kernel implementation

### Backends
Computation
- [x] Nvidia SM90a support
- [x] Nvidia SM80 support
- [x] Nvidia SM89 support
- [x] AMD CDNA3 support

Communication
- [x] NVLink
- [x] IB
- [x] PCIe

### Performance
- [x] Performance report

## License
The Triton-distributed project is under MIT license.
Part of our code is under Apache-2.0 License:
- `python/triton_dist/kernels/flash_decode.py`


## Citation
If you use Triton-distributed in a scientific publication, we encourage you to add the following reference to the related papers:
```bibtex
@misc{zheng2025tritondistributed,
      title={Triton-distributed: Programming Overlapping Kernels on Distributed AI Systems with the Triton Compiler},
      author={Size Zheng and Wenlei Bao and Qi Hou and Xuegui Zheng and Jin Fang and Chenhui Huang and Tianqi Li and Haojie Duanmu and Renze Chen and Ruifan Xu and Yifan Guo and Ningxin Zheng and Ziheng Jiang and Xinyi Di and Dongyang Wang and Jianxi Ye and Haibin Lin and Li-Wen Chang and Liqiang Lu and Yun Liang and Jidong Zhai and Xin Liu},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2504.19442},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.DC},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19442},
}

@article{zheng2025tilelink,
  title={Tilelink: Generating efficient compute-communication overlapping kernels using tile-centric primitives},
  author={Zheng, Size and Fang, Jin and Zheng, Xuegui and Hou, Qi and Bao, Wenlei and Zheng, Ningxin and Jiang, Ziheng and Wang, Dongyang and Ye, Jianxi and Lin, Haibin and others},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.20313},
  year={2025}
}
```

# About [ByteDance Seed Team](https://team.doubao.com/)

Founded in 2023, ByteDance Seed Team is dedicated to crafting the industry's most advanced AI foundation models. The team aspires to become a world-class research team and make significant contributions to the advancement of science and society.

# Discussion and Contribution
Please use issues or pull requests for discussion and contribution (see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)).

Commit message:

feat: Add intra-kernel profiler and user doc (#111)
* feat: add intra-kernel profiler for Triton & Mega Triton kernels

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
 👋 Hi, everyone!
    <br>
    We are <b>ByteDance Seed team.</b>
</div>

<p align="center">
  You can get to know us better through the following channels👇
  <br>
  <a href="https://team.doubao.com/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Website-%231e37ff?style=for-the-badge&logo=bytedance&logoColor=white"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/93481cda-a7f3-47f3-b333-fe6b3da86b78">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/WeChat-07C160?style=for-the-badge&logo=wechat&logoColor=white"></a>
 <a href="https://www.xiaohongshu.com/user/profile/668e7e15000000000303157d?xsec_token=ABl2-aqekpytY6A8TuxjrwnZskU-6BsMRE_ufQQaSAvjc%3D&xsec_source=pc_search">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Xiaohongshu-%23FF2442?style=for-the-badge&logo=xiaohongshu&logoColor=white"></a>
  <a href="https://www.zhihu.com/org/dou-bao-da-mo-xing-tuan-dui/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/zhihu-%230084FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=zhihu&logoColor=white"></a>
</p>

![seed logo](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c42e675e-497c-4508-8bb9-093ad4d1f216)

# Triton-distributed

<!-- <p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/bytedance/flux">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Triton-distributed-Project Page-yellow"></a>
  <a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/xxxx.xxxx">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Triton-distributed-Tech Report-red"></a>
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3fcb3bf-466b-4efe-8c3f-5f85258202ae">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Triton-distributed-Wechat Communication Group-07C160"></a>
  <a href="XXX">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue"></a>
</p> -->

[Original Triton README](https://github.com/triton-lang/triton/blob/main/README.md) | [README in Chinese](README-cn.md)

Triton-distributed is a distributed compiler designed for computation-communication overlapping, which is based on OpenAI Triton.

Using Triton-distributed, programmers are able to develop efficient kernels comparable to highly-optimized libraries (including [Distributed-GEMM](https://github.com/NVIDIA/cutlass/tree/main/examples/65_distributed_gemm) and [FLUX](https://github.com/bytedance/flux/blob/main/README.md)).
Triton-distributed currently mainly targets Nvidia GPU and AMD GPU. It can also be ported to other hardware platforms.
Feel free to contact us if you want to use Triton-distributed on your own hardware.

## Getting started

### Install Triton-distributed

#### Method 1. From source

See [build from source](docs/build.md).

#### Method 2. Using pip

Prepare PyTorch container

```sh
docker run --name triton-dist --ipc=host --network=host --privileged --cap-add=SYS_ADMIN --shm-size=10g --gpus=all -itd nvcr.io/nvidia/pytorch:25.04-py3 /bin/bash
docker exec -it triton-dist /bin/bash
```

Install Dependencies

```sh
pip3 install cuda-python==12.4 setuptools==69.0.0 wheel pybind11
```

Then, pip install triton-dist.
```sh
# Remove triton installed with torch
pip uninstall triton
pip uninstall triton_dist # remove previous triton-dist
rm -rf /usr/local/lib/python3.12/dist-packages/triton
# Install Triton-distributed
pip install https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/releases/download/v0.0.1-rc/triton_dist-3.4.0-cp312-cp312-manylinux_2_27_x86_64.manylinux_2_28_x86_64.whl
```

### Latest News
- 09/03/2025 ✨✨✨: Introduced Intra-Kernel Profiler, See the [doc](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/docs/getting-started/profiler/intra_kernel_profiler.md) for details.
- 08/24/2025 ⚡⚡⚡: Support inference acceleration for [ByteDance-Seed/Seed-OSS-36B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/ByteDance-Seed/Seed-OSS-36B-Instruct), achieving a 1.33x speedup.
- 08/13/2025 ✨✨✨: Introduced the MegaTritonKernel and provided a Qwen3 TP demo on H20/H800, See the [doc](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/docs/getting-started/megakernel/megakernel.md) for details.
- 08/06/2025 ✨✨✨: Support GEMM+AllReduce on H800 and support MoE operators on L20, see [GEMM+AR Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_gemm_ar.py) and [MOE Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_moe_reduce_rs.py) for detail.
- 07/24/2025 🤖🤖🤖: Introduced end-to-end inference acceleration demo with unified support for both NVIDIA and AMD GPUs. See the [doc](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/docs/getting-started/e2e/e2e_dense.md) for details.
- 07/11/2025 ✨✨✨: Fast AllReduce implemented with Triton-distributed, see [AllReduce Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_allreduce.py).
- 07/11/2025 ✨✨✨: Improved MoE operators for tensor parallel. See [AG+MoE Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_ag_moe.py) and [MoE+RS Test](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/blob/main/python/triton_dist/test/nvidia/test_moe_reduce_rs.py).
- 07/11/2025 ✨✨✨: Triton 3.4 support with NVSHMEM4py ([MR](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Triton-distributed/pull/54)). `pip install` is also supported without any need to modify NVSHMEM code.
- 05/12/2025 🚀🚀🚀: Our paper `TileLink: Generating Efficient Compute-Communication Overlapping Kernels using Tile-Centric Primitives` accepted by MLSys 2025.

### How to use Triton-distributed
Triton-distributed provides a set of easy-to use primitives to support the development of distributed compute-communication overlapping kernels. The primitives are divided into low-level primitives and high-level primitives. Currently, we have released our low-level primitives, and we plan to release high-level primitives in future.

[Triton-distributed Primitives](docs/primitives.md)

Using these primitives, users can program communication kernels easily. For example, a low-latency AllToAll (with better latency than [DeepEP](https://github.com/deepseek-ai/DeepEP) for inference) is shown below.
The performance of this example on 32 H800 GPUs is 137us (128 tokens per rank, topk=8, hidden_size=7168, dtype=fp8), while DeepEP is 182 us (note: DeepEP doesn't use NVLink for inference).
```py
@triton.jit
def all_to_all_kernel(
    data_src,
    data_dst,
    splits_src,
    splits_dst,
    signal,
    splits_cumsum,
    scale_src,
    scale_dst,
    rank: int,
    call_count: int,
    WITH_SCALE: tl.constexpr,
    WORLD_SIZE: tl.constexpr,
    HIDDEN: tl.constexpr,
    MAX_M: tl.constexpr,
    EXPERTS_PER_RANK: tl.constexpr,
    NUM_TOT_EXPERTS: tl.constexpr,
    ELEMENT_SIZE: tl.constexpr = 2,
    SCALE_ELEMENT_SIZE: tl.constexpr = 4,
):
    pid = tl.program_id(0)
    threadidx = tid(axis=0)

    exp_st = pid * EXPERTS_PER_RANK
    exp_ed = exp_st + EXPERTS_PER_RANK

    m_st = tl.load(splits_cumsum + exp_st)
    m_ed = tl.load(splits_cumsum + exp_ed)
    num_rows_cur_block = m_ed - m_st

    src_off = m_st
    dst_off = rank * MAX_M

    split_src_ptr = splits_src + exp_st
    off0 = exp_st + tl.arange(0, EXPERTS_PER_RANK)
    off1 = exp_st + tl.arange(0, EXPERTS_PER_RANK) + 1
    cumsum_sts = tl.load(splits_cumsum + off0)
    cumsum_eds = tl.load(splits_cumsum + off1)
    tl.store(split_src_ptr + tl.arange(0, EXPERTS_PER_RANK), cumsum_eds - cumsum_sts)

    act_pos = call_count % 2
    data_dst_ptr = data_dst + act_pos * WORLD_SIZE * MAX_M * HIDDEN + dst_off * HIDDEN
    split_dst_ptr = splits_dst + act_pos * NUM_TOT_EXPERTS + rank * EXPERTS_PER_RANK
    signal_ptr = signal + act_pos * WORLD_SIZE + rank

    libshmem_device.putmem_nbi_block(
        data_dst_ptr,
        data_src + src_off * HIDDEN,
        num_rows_cur_block * HIDDEN * ELEMENT_SIZE,
        pid,
    )
    libshmem_device.putmem_nbi_block(
        split_dst_ptr,
        split_src_ptr,
        EXPERTS_PER_RANK * 4,  # now we use `int32` for splits
        pid,
    )
    if WITH_SCALE:
        scale_dst_ptr = scale_dst + act_pos * WORLD_SIZE * MAX_M + dst_off
        libshmem_device.putmem_signal_nbi_block(
            scale_dst_ptr,
            scale_src + src_off,
            num_rows_cur_block * SCALE_ELEMENT_SIZE,
            signal_ptr,
            call_count,
            libshmem_device.NVSHMEM_SIGNAL_SET,
            pid,
        )

    libshmem_device.fence()
    if threadidx == 0:
        if not WITH_SCALE:
            libshmem_device.signal_op(
                signal_ptr,
                call_count,
                libshmem_device.NVSHMEM_SIGNAL_SET,
                pid,
            )
        libshmem_device.signal_wait_until(
            signal + act_pos * WORLD_SIZE + pid,
            libshmem_device.NVSHMEM_CMP_EQ,
            call_count,
        )
```

Also, users can combine the communication part with computation part to design overlapping kernels. We have provided example implementations in `python/triton_dist/kernels`.

## Performance
Triton-distributed can achieve comparable or better performance than hand-tuned libraries.


### AllGather GEMM on single node of H800x8
![Ag-GEMM-inter-node](asset/ag-gemm-intra-node.png)

### GEMM ReduceScatter on single node of H800x8
![Ag-GEMM-inter-node](asset/gemm-rs-intranode-perf.png)

### AllGather GEMM on 2 nodes of H800x8
![Ag-GEMM-inter-node](asset/ag-gemm-internode-perf.png)

### GEMM ReduceScatter on 2 nodes of H800x8
![GEMM-Rs-inter-node](asset/gemm-rs-internode-perf.png)

### Scaling of Distributed Flash-Decode from 1 GPU to 32 GPUs
The batch size is 1 (one query) for decoding.
![flash-decode-inter-node](asset/flash-decode-scaling.png)

### Performance on Other Platforms
[AMD GPUs](docs/amd-perf.md)


## Roadmaps

### Functionalities
- [x] Release low-level primitives
- [ ] Release high-level primitives
- [x] Tutorials
- [x] Pre-built binary

### Kernels
- [x] Release single-node GEMM TP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release single-node MoE TP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release single-node distributed Flash-Decoding kernels
- [ ] Release single-node MoE EP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release cross-node GEMM TP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release cross-node MoE TP overlapping kernels
- [x] Release cross-node distributed Flash-Decoding kernels
- [x] Release cross-node EP all-to-all kernels (similar to [DeepEP](https://github.com/deepseek-ai/DeepEP))
- [x] Provide tutorials for kernel implementation

### Backends
Computation
- [x] Nvidia SM90a support
- [x] Nvidia SM80 support
- [x] Nvidia SM89 support
- [x] AMD CDNA3 support

Communication
- [x] NVLink
- [x] IB
- [x] PCIe

### Performance
- [x] Performance report

## License
The Triton-distributed project is under MIT license.
Part of our code is under Apache-2.0 License:
- `python/triton_dist/kernels/flash_decode.py`


## Citation
If you use Triton-distributed in a scientific publication, we encourage you to add the following reference to the related papers:
```bibtex
@misc{zheng2025tritondistributed,
      title={Triton-distributed: Programming Overlapping Kernels on Distributed AI Systems with the Triton Compiler},
      author={Size Zheng and Wenlei Bao and Qi Hou and Xuegui Zheng and Jin Fang and Chenhui Huang and Tianqi Li and Haojie Duanmu and Renze Chen and Ruifan Xu and Yifan Guo and Ningxin Zheng and Ziheng Jiang and Xinyi Di and Dongyang Wang and Jianxi Ye and Haibin Lin and Li-Wen Chang and Liqiang Lu and Yun Liang and Jidong Zhai and Xin Liu},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2504.19442},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.DC},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19442},
}

@article{zheng2025tilelink,
  title={Tilelink: Generating efficient compute-communication overlapping kernels using tile-centric primitives},
  author={Zheng, Size and Fang, Jin and Zheng, Xuegui and Hou, Qi and Bao, Wenlei and Zheng, Ningxin and Jiang, Ziheng and Wang, Dongyang and Ye, Jianxi and Lin, Haibin and others},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.20313},
  year={2025}
}
```

# About [ByteDance Seed Team](https://team.doubao.com/)

Founded in 2023, ByteDance Seed Team is dedicated to crafting the industry's most advanced AI foundation models. The team aspires to become a world-class research team and make significant contributions to the advancement of science and society.

# Discussion and Contribution
Please use issues or pull requests for discussion and contribution (see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)).
